# Android

### List views

You need a way of navigating between your activities. A common approach is to use __list views__. A list view allows you to display a list of data that you can then use to navigate through the app.

`ListView` is a view group that displays a list of scrollable items. The list items are automatically inserted to the list using an __Adapter__ that pulls content from a source such as an array or database query and converts each item result into a view that's placed into the list.

__Note__: For better performance in your list, you should instead build your list with RecyclerView.

Определение обработчика клика по элементу `ListView`:

```
AdapterView.OnItemClickListener itemClickListener = new AdapterView.OnItemClickListener(){
  public void onItemClick(AdapterView<?> listView, View itemView, int position, long id) {
    if (position == 0) {
      Intent intent = new Intent(TopLevelActivity.this, DrinkCategoryActivity.class);
      startActivity(intent);
    }
  }
}

ListView listView = (ListView) findViewById(R.id.list_options);
listView.setOnItemClickListener(itemClickListener);
```

`onClick()` для `ListView` нет, т.к. он не является субклассом `Button`. 

Для привязки статических данных используйте `ListView` атрибут `android:entries="@array/options"`.

For nonstatic data, use an __adapter__.

If you need to display data in a list view that comes from a source other than strings.xml (such as a Java array or database), you need to use an __adapter__. An adapter acts as a bridge between the data source and the list view.

There are several different types of adapter. For now, we’re going to focus on __array adapters__.  An array adapter is a type of adapter that’s used to bind 
arrays to views. You can use it with any subclass of the `AdapterView` class, which means you can use it with both list views and spinners.

```
ArrayAdapter<Drink> listAdapter = new ArrayAdapter<>(
    this, // ссылка на активность
    android.R.layout.simple_list_item_1, // layout для элемента
    Drink.drinks  // массив с данными
);

ListView listDrinks = (ListView) findViewById(R.id.list_drinks);
listDrinks.setAdapter(listAdapter);
```

---

#### Pass the ID of the item that was clicked by adding it to an intent

When you use a category activity to display items in a list view, you’ll usually use the `onItemClick()` method to start another activity that displays details of the item the user clicked. To do this, you create an intent that starts the second activity. You then add the ID of the item that was clicked as extra information so that the second activity can use it when the activity starts. 

```
Intent intent = new Intent(DrinkCategoryActivity.this, DrinkActivity.class);
intent.putExtra(DrinkActivity.EXTRA_DRINKID, (int) id);
startActivity(intent);
```

It’s common practice to pass the ID of the item that was clicked because it’s the ID of the underlying data.
